# CIGAR-COIL-PROTECTION-BRACKET

PROBLEM:- This is with a very common component of an spark ignited engines and is known as Ignition Coil or commonly known as Cigar Coil. This is a type of coil on plug system. Due its very delicate design and low strength of materials are utilized, frequent failure was present and cause us losses in terms of vehicle uptime reduction as vehicles are getting breakdown very often due to this part failure. Also as high voltage is present in this component as high as 24000 volts and if this components gets come in contact with any other nearby other engine electronic components due to its loosed mounting and other nearby components may failed easily and if this high voltage reached to ECU somehow, major loss will be there.

SOLUTION:- There are two major issues we are facing first is mounting is broken and second is supply connectors are broken. To solve both problem in a single solution I designed a CIGAR COIL PROTECTION BRACKET made of PA-2200 plastic material which has 30% glass present in it and due to this, it can able to withstand temperatures of as high as 300 degrees celcius very easily and also this is very high strength material. And the design is made in such a way that it can able to withstand forces of more than 10 times of its original part. This bracket can be easily fitted to a failed part by push-fitting with very light force only. Also this part can also be fitted to over newer part so that premature failure of cigar coil will not be seen in future. This whole design is made in house and also tested for 1 month before its implementation to whole fleet. Fitment hardly takes 2-5 minutes and is very easily be done by any person without any need of any skill.

IMPACT:- After implementing this to our whole fleet 1,740 CIGAR COIL PROTECTION BRACKETS are used (as our fleet size is very big) and it takes a while to complete this whole exercise. But after few months of implementation our breakdown due to this part failure is reduced drastically from 25 affected breakdown vehicles to 1-2 breaksowns only and now we rarely see any failure of this kind. And more over consumption is reduced drastically as well from 40-50 qty per month to 15-20 per month.
